{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf500
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa106\qj\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 3.C.2.A Background
\f1\b0 \'a0Allergic diseases include\'a0a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations and conditions, immune cells, cytokines, and cells involved in epithelial integrity.
\fs24\fsmilli12222 \super 144
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \nosupersub \'a0Different methylation signatures have been described relating to all of these
\fs24\fsmilli12222 \sub .
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \super 184,185,,16 17\nosupersub \'a0Four studies
\fs24\fsmilli12222 \super 16 119-121
\fs29\fsmilli14667 \nosupersub \'a0have previously implicated 104 CpG sites associated with allergic diseases. The studies are of high relevance to our aims as the epigenetic changes affect the MAPK pathway and therefore T-cell activation, germane to all allergic diseases.
\f2\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa106\qj\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 \cb1 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\fs32 \cb3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li960\fi-960\sl340\sa320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf2 16. Martino D, Joo JE, Sexton-Oates A, et al. Epigenome-wide association study reveals longitudinally stable DNA methylation differences in CD4+ T cells from children with IgE-mediated food allergy.\'a0
\f3\i Epigenetics
\f1\i0 \'a02014;9(7):998-1006. doi: 10.4161/epi.28945\
119. Peng C, Cardenas A, Rifas-Shiman SL, et al. Epigenome-wide association study of total serum immunoglobulin E in children: a life course approach.\'a0
\f3\i Clin Epigenetics
\f1\i0 2018;10:55. doi: 10.1186/s13148-018-0488-x [published Online First: 2018/04/26]\cb1 \
\cb3 120. Zhang H, Akhilesh, K. Simon, M., Mel\'e9n, E., Rezwan, F., Han, L., Ewart, S., Arshad, S., Karmaus, W., Holloway, J.W. DNA methylation and allergic sensitizations, a genome-scale longitudinal study during adolescence.\'a0
\f3\i Allergy
\f1\i0 \'a02019;In press\cb1 \
\cb3 121. Everson TM, Lyons G, Zhang H, et al. DNA methylation loci associated with atopy and high serum IgE: a genome-wide application of recursive Random Forest feature selection.\'a0
\f3\i Genome Med
\f1\i0 \'a02015;7:89. doi: 10.1186/s13073-015-0213-8 [published Online First: 2015/08/22]\cb1 \
}